A cryptographically secure Node.js random generator for real English words. Contains over 350,000 English words.

Upgrading from V3? See the [upgrade guide](#v3-to-v4-migration-guide).

**Note:** Rword stores its words array in memory, and limited testing shows this to add about ~20-60 MB to Node's heap depending on which word list you choose. Rword is built to be fast and self-contained without the need for a database and this price is paid at the expense of your RAM.

```
npm install rword rword-english-recommended
```

# Examples

**Using the recommended (smaller) word list:**

```ts
import { words } from 'rword-english-recommended';
import { Rword } from 'rword';

const rword = new Rword(words);
rword.generate(); // ['pocketful']
rword.generate(4); // ['disrupter', 'recognizes', 'unbuckle', 'responding']
```

**Using the extended (bigger) word list:**

```ts
import { words } from 'rword-english-extended';
import { Rword } from 'rword';

const rword = new Rword(words);
rword.generate();
```

**Generate reproducible words from a custom seed:**

```ts
const seedRword1 = new Rword(words, 'your_custom_seed_123');
seedRword1.generate(3); // ['abandon', 'gunpowder', 'pole']
const seedRword2 = new Rword(words, 'your_custom_seed_123');
seedRword2.generate(3); // ['abandon', 'gunpowder', 'pole']
```

# Words

Rword offers two prebuilt English wordlists you can install.

- For a smaller list (~123k words), install and import from `rword-english-recommended`.
- For a larger list (~350k words), install and import from `rword-english-extended`.

All of the words contain _only_ `a-z` characters. There are no numbers, symbols, spaces, or diacritics.

- `rword-english-recommended` contains only words 3-10 characters in length, while `rword-english-extended` has no length requirements.
- `rword-english-recommended` is likely to decrease in size in the future, while `rword-english-extended` may increase.

You can also provide your own custom list as a string array or modify a prebuilt list if you'd like.

# API

## `const rword = new Rword(words, seed)`

Creates an instance of Rword with the specified word list and optional seed.

- `words: string[]` - The word list to load into the Rword instance.
- `seed?: string` - Optional - By providing a seed, you ensure that the sequence of random words generated by the instance is reproducible. This means that if you create two instances of Rword with the same word list and seed, they will generate the same sequence of words.

## `rword.generate(length)`

Generates words from the instance's words array.

- `length: number` - Optional (default `1`) - How many words to return

You may be tempted to use the shorthand `new Rword('small').generate()` as needed, but this is _not_ recommended because creating an Rword instance causes the entire word list to be loaded and shuffled. It's recommended to keep and reuse as few instances as possible.

## `rword.shuffle()`

Shuffles the instance's words array. This method is automatically called upon instantiation.

## `rword.getWords()`

Returns the full (shuffled) words array used internally by the Rword instance.

## `rword.load(words)`

Loads a new array of words into the instance and shuffles it.

- `words: string[]` - The array of words to load into the instance.

# V3 to V4 Migration Guide

- **Import:** Instead of importing a global `rword` instance, import the `Rword` class and then a separate word list, like from the `rword-english-recommended` or `rword-english-extended` packages.
- **Instantiation:** Create an instance of Rword with the desired word list and optional seed.
- **API Methods:** The methods now belong to an instance and the options object is removed for filtering.

## Upgrade Steps

1. **Import:**

   - V3

   ```ts
   import { rword } from 'rword';
   ```

   - V4

   ```ts
   import { words } from 'rword-english-recommended'; // or 'rword-english-extended'
   import { Rword } from 'rword'; // Capitalized export
   ```

2. **Create instance:**

   - V3: Not needed
   - V4

   ```ts
   const rword = new Rword(words);
   ```

3. **Generate words:**

   - V3

   ```ts
   // has filtering options
   // might return a string, or an array
   rword.generate(5, { length: '3-10', contains: /pattern/ });
   // has generateFromPool method for improved performance
   rword.generateFromPool(5);
   ```

   - V4

   ```ts
   // only the number of words is accepted
   // always returns an array
   // only has a single generate method
   rword.generate(5);
   ```

If you need the old filtering options, you should do this yourself on a words array and then load that new aray into an instance.
